we've all heard the term rust never
sleeps and it's true especially on your
car once Russ gets started he has a
tendency to spread all over the car but
there are some things you can do to
avoid rust get started when moisture and
oxygen work together against the metal
parts of our cars keeping our car is
clean and not allowing salt moisture and
mud to accumulate on them goes a long
way towards keeping them rust free make
sure that you get the underside of your
car blasted off at the car wash in the
wintertime to get the road salt and
de-icers off the lower parts of the car
as well in addition to getting the
outside of the car wash you need to also
make sure that the inside of the doors
and the drains on the bottom of the
doors are kept clean and open otherwise
mud will accumulate inside these sorts
of panels and rust will start just like
this what if it's too late and rust has
already started on your vehicle first of
all if it's just a small chip or a
scratch and the rust is really minor
most shops can take care of that and
just refinish the panel and you're good
to go
now rust like this the 30 started to
bubble through from the backside is a
whole different story first of all you
never want somebody just to grind this
panel down and smear some filler over
the top of it because that rust will
just come back and you will have wasted
your money I've got this panel cut off
so we can see on the inside of it
that the rust is more than twice as much
as you see on the outside so as you can
see even if you tried to fill these
holes on the outside all of this rust on
the inside would eventually work its way
back out and that rust will come right
back what someone needs to do is
actually remove the metal panels on the
vehicle and replace them
the downside to trying to get this sort
of rust repair done is a lot of shops
don't do it anymore many shops just
specialize in collision repair so if
you're going to get this sort of work
done you need to go to a specialist of
respiration type shop and they'll be
able to take this rust and put it to
sleep
for Channel 6 News I'm Jim champion the
auto guy
you